all right let me take us now to the
security Council where the UN Secretary
General is speaking let's listen in one
mistake could lead to the
unthinkable a fullscale regional
conflict that would be devastating for
all involved and for the rest of the
world the moment of Maximum Peril must
be a time for maximum
restrain I reiterate my strong
condemnation of the serious escalation
represented by the large scale attack
launched by the Islamic Republic of Iran
on Israel on 13
April the use of force against the
territorial Integrity or political
independence of any state or in any
other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations is
prohibited by the
charter and as I stated earlier this
months when I condemned the attack on
the Iranian Consulate in Damascus the
principle of inviolability of diplomatic
and Consular premises and personnel must
be respected in all cases in accordance
with international
law it is I time to end the bloody cycle
of
retaliation it is high time to
stop the International Community must
work together to prevent any actions
that could push the entire Middle East
over the edge
with a devastating impact on
civilians let me be clear the risks are
spiraling on many
fronts we have a shared responsibility
to address those risks and pull the
region back from the
precipice the way to do so is by
advaning comprehensive diplomatic action
for deescalation in the Middle
East Mr President it starts with
Gaza ending the hostilities in Gaza
would significantly diffuse tensions
across the region I reiterate my calls
for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire
and the immediate release of all
hostages held in
Gaza the horrific Terror attacks by
amamas and other Palestinian armed
groups on 7
October including mass killings the use
of sexual violence torture and The
Taking of hostages
were an intolerable denial of the most
basic values of humanity and the breach
of the most fundamental rules of
international
law in Gaza 6 and a half months of
Israeli military operations have created
a humanitarian
hellscape tens of thousands of people
have been killed 2 million Palestinians
have endured death destruction and the
denial of life-saving humanitarian AIDS
and they are now staring down on
salvation an Israeli operation in Rafa
would compound this humanitarian
catastrophe the casualty figures are
overwhelming and unprecedented in speed
and scale during my time as Secretary
General according to UNICEF more than
13,900 Palestinian children have
reportedly been killed in intense often
indiscriminate
attacks all this has happened with
severe limitations imposed by the
Israeli authorities on the delivery of
humanitarian aids to people in Gaza who
are facing widespread
starvation Israel recently made a number
of commitments to improve Aid delivery
and there have been some examples of
limited
progress three dfp convoys with a total
of 25 trucks were authorized to use the
AIS Crossing in Northern Gaza on 14 15
and 16 April to deliver food parcels and
whe
floor the operating hours of K Shalom
and its Crossings have been expanded
from the Israeli side but security
concerns mean the hours could not be
expanded to the same extent on the Gaza
side
some bakeries have resumed operations in
Northern and Central Gaz Gaza the first
to reopen in
months but apparent progress in one area
is often cancelled out by delays and
restrictions
Elsewhere for example although the
Israeli authorities have cleared more
Aid
convoys those clearances are often
granted when it is too late in the day
to make deliveries and returns
safely
one can say that our Personnel cannot
operate in darkness in a war zone
littered with un exploded
ordinance so the impact is
limited sometimes
nil the clearances increase but the
there are continued obstacles to aid for
people who are in Desperate needs
during the week of 6 to 12 April Israel
denied more than 40% of un requests that
required passing through Israeli
checkpoints we urgently need meaningful
measurable progress including for
example the unrestricted delivery of a
via ashot port and restarting of the
nahal O water
line to avert imminent famine and
further preventable deaths from from
disease we need a Quantum Leap in
humanitarian Aid to Palestinians in Gaza
food is essential so are Clean Water
Sanitation and health care this means
addressing the challenges impeding
delivery on the
ground humanitarian agencies led by unra
which is the backbone of our operations
must be able to move food and other
supplies safely and Via all possible
routs and crossings into and throughout
every part of
Gaza that requires improved the liberal
systems around all supply routes and
entry
points humanitarians also need
security nearly 250 Aid workers
including more than 180 of our own staff
have been killed in Gaza I repeat my
call for sorrow investigations into this
tragic death just last week a UNICEF
vehicle traveling with a convoy was
caught in
crossfire delivering Aid at scale
requires Israel's full and active
facilitation of humanitarian operations
including through a functioning
humanitarian notification system and
improved and Direct Communications
between humanitarians and Military
decision makers on the ground this is
essential and must be implemented
immediately for the moment our Aid
operations face enormous difficulties
and are barely functional they cannot
operate in an organized systematic way
they can only seize opportunities to
deliver Aid whenever and wherever
possible and humanitarians alone cannot
address the enormity of the needs in
Gaza the private sector is critical
increasing commercial traffic is
essential what is needed is clear an
immediate humanitarian SE fire in Gaza
the immediate and unconditional release
of all hostages and the unimpeded
delivery of humanitarian
Aid the International Community has a
shared responsibility to do everything
possible to make this
happen Mr President a comprehensive if
the escalation approach must also
reverse the explosive situation in the
occupied West
Bank more than 450
Palestinians including 112 children have
been killed in the occupied West Bank
since 7 October the majority by Israeli
forces in the course of their
operations and in exchanges between
Israeli forces and armed Palestinians
others were killed by armed Israeli
settlers sometimes in the presence of
Israeli Security Forces who reportedly
stood by and did nothing to prevent
these
killings last year saw the highest
number of such attacks and incidents of
violence and intimidation against
Palestinian communities since the United
Nations began recording them in
2006 17 Israelis including one child
have also been killed in the occupied
West Bank and Israel since 7
October in addition to these numbers the
reported killing of a 14-year-old
Israeli boy over the weekend set off
another wage of armed settler attacks
against at least 37 Palestinian villages
in the occupied West Bank four
Palestinians were killed including a
17-year-old
boy I condemn all violence against
civilians I urge Israel to make
immediate steps to end the unprecedented
levels of settler violence and to hold
accountable those who have perpetrated
such
attacks and I call on Israel as the
occupying power to protect the
Palestinian population of the occupied
West Bank against attacks violence and
intimidation the the backdrop to this
appalling surge in violence is the
continued expansion of Israeli
settlements in themselves a violation of
international law and repeated large
scale Israeli operations in Palestinian
areas declarations that areas now
constitute Israeli state land together
with legal decisions that strengthen
settlements and potentially increased
demolitions and evictions risk
undermining the contiguity of a future
Palestinian State and in I hope to a
generation of
Palestinians Israel and the
International Community must support and
work with the new Palestinian government
to address its fiscal challenges
strengthening its governance capacity
and prepare it to assume its
responsibilities in Gaza in the
future I urge All actors to recognize
the critical role the Palestinian
Authority should play in Gaza and works
towards enabling its returns in the
appropriate
time Mr President the ultimate goal
remains a two-state solution Israel and
Palestine living side by side in peace
and security with Jerusalem as the
capital of both states on the basis of
un resolutions international law and
previous
agreements that means an end to the
occupation and the establishment of a
fully independent Democratic contigous
viable and Sovereign Palestinian state
with Gaza as an integral
part the International Community has a
responsibility and the moral obligation
to help make this
happen Mr
President Regional deescalation efforts
must also address the extremely fraud
situation in Lebanon particularly along
the Blue
Line exchanges of Fire between Israel
forces and esbah are exacting a mounting
toll on civilian communities in Israel
and
Lebanon dozens of civilians have been
killed and tens of thousands displaced
on both sides of the Blue
Line these exchanges could take on a
momentum of their own strikes deep into
the territories of Lebanon and Israel
could ignite an even more serious
confrontation as we have seen in the
past
I call on all parties to exercise
maximum restraint and avoid further
breaches of the cessation of hostilities
under the framework of resolution
1701 the United Nations stands ready to
support the ever efforts of several
countries to encourage deescalation and
to work towards a diplomatic
solution Mr President Regional
deescalation efforts must also ensure
the safety of navigation on the Red
Sea respecting the rights and duties
relating to Maritime navigation in
accordance with international
law HTI attacks on Merchant and
commercial shipping continue to disrupt
Global
trades they have been met with strikes
by the United States and the United
Kingdom armed confrontations on these
crucial Waterway increase risks across
the board risks to supply chains risks
to an environmental disaster from a
damaged cargo ship or oil tanker risks
of a serious escalation and a
confrontation between measor Powers with
appalling political security economic
and humanitarian
repercussions all attacks on Merchant
and commercial shipping on the Red Sea
must end
immediately the International Community
must act together to prevent escalation
in the Red Sea that would exacerbate
tensions and undermine Regional peace
and security and international
trade and the people of Yemen must be
supported towards a political process
for a sustainable and just
peace Mr President the Middle East is on
a knif edge recent escalations make it
even more important to support good face
efforts to find lasting peace between
Israel and a fully independent viable
and Sovereign Palestinian
States failure to make progress towards
a two-state solution will only increase
volatility and risk for hundreds of
millions of people across the region
will continue to live under the constant
threat of
violence I urge every government
involved use its influence and leverage
to promote trust building Mutual
Security and Regional
peace we have a shared moral obligation
to advance a comprehensive Middle East
deescalation effort
in order to reduce risks increase
stability and pave the way towards peace
and prosperity for the countries and
people of the region and Beyond thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer